README.md, before:

# 🚢 🍤 Galley Ops

Galley Ops is a fully bootstrapped platform to digitize a family-owned restaurant, spanning from the public landing page to order dispatch and fiscal compliance. It began as a simple ticket-printing PWA and evolved into a complete system for menu management, orders, settlements, NFC-e emission, and internal dashboards.

## Quick overview

- **Astro landing page** with SEO, schema.org, and PT/EN/ES language switcher.
- **A4 printable menu** with editorial typography and trim marks.
- **Internal app** (Next.js 16, Tailwind, MUI, Radix, PWA) for building orders with role-based logins.
- **Django 5 backend** (DRF, Channels, Celery) issuing NFC‑e via SEFAZ in production.
- **FastAPI + pywin32 driver** that prints tickets and bills on ESC/P printers.
- **Postman collections** covering the entire ecosystem.

```
.
├── landing/      # Astro landing page (public menu + SEO)
├── a4-menu/      # Printable A4 menu
├── app/          # Internal Next.js PWA
├── service/      # Django backend + Celery + Channels
├── driver/       # FastAPI printing bridge
└── docs/         # Postman collections and docs
```

## Module highlights

### Landing (`landing/`)
- Built with **Astro 5** (static SSR), sitemap, and SEO-ready metadata.
- PT‑BR / EN / ES copy persisted via localStorage for returning visitors.
- `/menu` consumes `PUBLIC_MENU_API`, mirroring the same menu used internally.
- Makefile targets (`build`, `deploy`, nginx helpers) streamline deployments.

### Printable menu (`a4-menu/`)
- Pure HTML/CSS with tuned `@page`, margins, and Playfair + Manrope typography.
- Book-style layout (responsive columns) used to generate PDFs for the tables.

### Internal app (`app/`)
- **Next.js 16** exported as a static PWA (using `@ducanh2912/next-pwa`).
- Tailwind + Radix + shadcn components themed for the restaurant identity.
- Hooks (`useMenu`, `useTables`, `useAuth`) handle authenticated fetches, WebSockets, and QR scanning.
- `OrderContext` persists order data locally and emits idempotent payloads.
- Dashboard prints the 10% service report and shows tables in real time.

### Backend (`service/`)
- **Django 5 + DRF** REST API, Channels for WebSockets, Celery queues (`default`, `notifications`, `printing`).
- Core apps: `menu`, `orders`, `nfce` (PyNFe + certificate A1 for SEFAZ).
- Issues official NFC‑e invoices in production.
- Role-based logins (waiter, cashier, admin) with tailored permissions.
- Celery tasks send Telegram alerts, trigger printers, and refresh open tables.
- `docker-compose.yml` runs web, ASGI, three Celery workers, and Redis locally.

### Printing driver (`driver/`)
- **FastAPI** service that receives payloads and hands them to pywin32 scripts.
- Dedicated scripts for bar, kitchen, bill, and daily dashboard printing.
- Printer selection via environment variables with standardized error handling.

### Docs (`docs/`)
- Postman collections (`service.postman_collection.json`, `printer.postman_collection.json`) covering auth, menu, orders, settlements, dashboard, and printer endpoints.
- README explains the required environment variables and import instructions.

## How to run

> Each directory ships its own README/Makefile; below is the condensed version.

1. **Backend** – configure `.env`, install deps, run `docker compose up` in `service/`. API lives at `http://localhost:8002`, WebSocket at `http://localhost:8006`.
2. **Internal app** – inside `app/`, create `.env.local` with `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` + `NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_BASE_URL`, then `npm install && npm run dev`.
3. **Landing** – `npm install && npm run dev` in `landing/` (port 4321). Makefile helps deploy.
4. **Driver** – add `.env` with printer names, `pip install -r requirements.txt`, run `uvicorn main:app`.
5. **A4 menu** – open `a4-menu/index.html` in the browser or print/save as PDF.

## Personalização do branding

- **Landing (Astro)** – todas as informações públicas (nome, slogan, endereço, redes, SEO, cópias PT/EN/ES) são lidas de variáveis `PUBLIC_BRAND_*` descritas em `landing/.env`. O módulo `landing/src/data/brand.ts` centraliza o parsing e pode ser extendido para outros campos.
- **App interno (Next.js)** – crie `app/.env.local` a partir de `app/.env.local.example` e defina `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_*` / `NEXT_PUBLIC_PWA_*` para atualizar cabeçalhos, login e metadados da PWA sem tocar no código.
- **Material impresso e seeds** – os cardápios em `a4-menu/` e os comandos Django em `service/menu/management/commands/` já usam nomes neutros (ex.: “Camarão da Casa”). Ajuste livremente os textos ou replique seu cardápio.
- **Coleções + driver** – `docs/*.postman_collection.json` e `driver/README.md` agora descrevem a API de forma genérica. Atualize os campos de exemplo (`company_name`, `company_address` etc.) conforme o cliente.
  

## Status & next steps

- Live in production, fully replacing the old paper-and-pen workflow.
- Tangible gains in service speed and bill settlement.
- Roadmap: automated tests, monitoring, new operational reports.
- The project remains active and keeps evolving.

## Preview 

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10f04383-28e0-4f73-89e9-b15dab5cba23" alt="Tela 1" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/421f51b5-0a7e-44a9-a127-a4ad8d2e5de5" alt="Tela 2" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/62ff2b3c-808c-4f5a-b68b-14d5bfb346f8" alt="Tela 3" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/157d4edc-26e3-4fdb-913b-198e1c224ad6" alt="Tela 4" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b195907-9cb4-4e36-8a11-27bc7f0fe5b3" alt="Tela 5" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00b29dab-56b7-488c-a7bc-d4aba30ff790" alt="Tela 6" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d55acda-74c5-4636-bf1f-adc53622673e" alt="Tela 7" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
</div>

Commit message:

Revise branding customization section in README.md
- Translated and updated the branding customization details to English, ensuring clarity on how to personalize the landing page, internal app, printed materials, and API documentation. This enhances accessibility for a broader audience.

README.md, after:

# 🚢 🍤 Galley Ops

Galley Ops is a fully bootstrapped platform to digitize a family-owned restaurant, spanning from the public landing page to order dispatch and fiscal compliance. It began as a simple ticket-printing PWA and evolved into a complete system for menu management, orders, settlements, NFC-e emission, and internal dashboards.

## Quick overview

- **Astro landing page** with SEO, schema.org, and PT/EN/ES language switcher.
- **A4 printable menu** with editorial typography and trim marks.
- **Internal app** (Next.js 16, Tailwind, MUI, Radix, PWA) for building orders with role-based logins.
- **Django 5 backend** (DRF, Channels, Celery) issuing NFC‑e via SEFAZ in production.
- **FastAPI + pywin32 driver** that prints tickets and bills on ESC/P printers.
- **Postman collections** covering the entire ecosystem.

```
.
├── landing/      # Astro landing page (public menu + SEO)
├── a4-menu/      # Printable A4 menu
├── app/          # Internal Next.js PWA
├── service/      # Django backend + Celery + Channels
├── driver/       # FastAPI printing bridge
└── docs/         # Postman collections and docs
```

## Module highlights

### Landing (`landing/`)
- Built with **Astro 5** (static SSR), sitemap, and SEO-ready metadata.
- PT‑BR / EN / ES copy persisted via localStorage for returning visitors.
- `/menu` consumes `PUBLIC_MENU_API`, mirroring the same menu used internally.
- Makefile targets (`build`, `deploy`, nginx helpers) streamline deployments.

### Printable menu (`a4-menu/`)
- Pure HTML/CSS with tuned `@page`, margins, and Playfair + Manrope typography.
- Book-style layout (responsive columns) used to generate PDFs for the tables.

### Internal app (`app/`)
- **Next.js 16** exported as a static PWA (using `@ducanh2912/next-pwa`).
- Tailwind + Radix + shadcn components themed for the restaurant identity.
- Hooks (`useMenu`, `useTables`, `useAuth`) handle authenticated fetches, WebSockets, and QR scanning.
- `OrderContext` persists order data locally and emits idempotent payloads.
- Dashboard prints the 10% service report and shows tables in real time.

### Backend (`service/`)
- **Django 5 + DRF** REST API, Channels for WebSockets, Celery queues (`default`, `notifications`, `printing`).
- Core apps: `menu`, `orders`, `nfce` (PyNFe + certificate A1 for SEFAZ).
- Issues official NFC‑e invoices in production.
- Role-based logins (waiter, cashier, admin) with tailored permissions.
- Celery tasks send Telegram alerts, trigger printers, and refresh open tables.
- `docker-compose.yml` runs web, ASGI, three Celery workers, and Redis locally.

### Printing driver (`driver/`)
- **FastAPI** service that receives payloads and hands them to pywin32 scripts.
- Dedicated scripts for bar, kitchen, bill, and daily dashboard printing.
- Printer selection via environment variables with standardized error handling.

### Docs (`docs/`)
- Postman collections (`service.postman_collection.json`, `printer.postman_collection.json`) covering auth, menu, orders, settlements, dashboard, and printer endpoints.
- README explains the required environment variables and import instructions.

## How to run

> Each directory ships its own README/Makefile; below is the condensed version.

1. **Backend** – configure `.env`, install deps, run `docker compose up` in `service/`. API lives at `http://localhost:8002`, WebSocket at `http://localhost:8006`.
2. **Internal app** – inside `app/`, create `.env.local` with `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` + `NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_BASE_URL`, then `npm install && npm run dev`.
3. **Landing** – `npm install && npm run dev` in `landing/` (port 4321). Makefile helps deploy.
4. **Driver** – add `.env` with printer names, `pip install -r requirements.txt`, run `uvicorn main:app`.
5. **A4 menu** – open `a4-menu/index.html` in the browser or print/save as PDF.

## Branding customization

- **Landing (Astro)** – all public information (name, slogan, address, social links, SEO, PT/EN/ES copy) is read from the `PUBLIC_BRAND_*` variables defined in `landing/.env`. The `landing/src/data/brand.ts` module centralizes the parsing and can be extended to other fields.
- **Internal app (Next.js)** – create `app/.env.local` from `app/.env.local.example` and set `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_*` / `NEXT_PUBLIC_PWA_*` to update headers, login, and PWA metadata without touching the code.
- **Printed material and seeds** – the menus in `a4-menu/` and the Django commands in `service/menu/management/commands/` already use neutral names (e.g., “Camarão da Casa”). Adjust the texts freely or replicate your menu.
- **Collections + driver** – `docs/*.postman_collection.json` and `driver/README.md` now describe the API generically. Update the sample fields (`company_name`, `company_address`, etc.) for each client.
  

## Status & next steps

- Live in production, fully replacing the old paper-and-pen workflow.
- Tangible gains in service speed and bill settlement.
- Roadmap: automated tests, monitoring, new operational reports.
- The project remains active and keeps evolving.

## Preview 

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10f04383-28e0-4f73-89e9-b15dab5cba23" alt="Tela 1" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/421f51b5-0a7e-44a9-a127-a4ad8d2e5de5" alt="Tela 2" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/62ff2b3c-808c-4f5a-b68b-14d5bfb346f8" alt="Tela 3" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/157d4edc-26e3-4fdb-913b-198e1c224ad6" alt="Tela 4" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b195907-9cb4-4e36-8a11-27bc7f0fe5b3" alt="Tela 5" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00b29dab-56b7-488c-a7bc-d4aba30ff790" alt="Tela 6" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d55acda-74c5-4636-bf1f-adc53622673e" alt="Tela 7" width="220" style="margin:0 10px 10px 0;" />
</div>
